pkgs/jni/README.md, before:

# jni (experimental module)

This is a utility library to access JNI from Dart / Flutter code, intended as a supplement for `jnigen` code generator, as well as provide the common base components (such as managing the JVM instance) to the code generated by `jnigen`.

This library contains:

* functions to access the JNIEnv and JavaVM variables from JNI, and wrapper functions to those provided by JNI. JNIEnv is exposed via `GlobalJniEnv` type which provides a thin abstraction over JNIEnv, so that it can be used from multiple threads.

* Functions to spawn a JVM on desktop platforms (`Jni.spawn`).

* Some Android-specific helpers (get application context and current activity references).

* `JniObject` class, which provides base class for classes generated by jnigen.

This is intended for one-off / debugging uses of JNI, as well as providing a base library for code generated by jnigen. 

__To generate type-safe bindings from Java libraries, use `jnigen`.__

## Version note
This library is at an early stage of development and we do not provide backwards compatibility of the API at this point.

## Documentation
The test/ directory contains files with comments explaining the basics of this module, and the example/ directory contains a flutter example which also touches some Android-specifics.

Using this library assumes some familiarity with JNI - it's threading model and object references, among other things.

## jnigen

This library is a part of `jnigen` - a 2022 GSoC project.

The broader aim of jnigen is making Java APIs accessible from dart in an idiomatic way.

Commit message:

[jnigen] Windows support (https://github.com/dart-lang/jnigen/issues/59)

pkgs/jni/README.md, after:

# jni (experimental module)

This is a utility library to access JNI from Dart / Flutter code, intended as a supplement for `jnigen` code generator, as well as provide the common base components (such as managing the JVM instance) to the code generated by `jnigen`.

This library contains:

* functions to access the JNIEnv and JavaVM variables from JNI, and wrapper functions to those provided by JNI. JNIEnv is exposed via `GlobalJniEnv` type which provides a thin abstraction over JNIEnv, so that it can be used from multiple threads.

* Functions to spawn a JVM on desktop platforms (`Jni.spawn`).

* Some Android-specific helpers (get application context and current activity references).

* `JniObject` class, which provides base class for classes generated by jnigen.

This is intended for one-off / debugging uses of JNI, as well as providing a base library for code generated by jnigen. 

__To generate type-safe bindings from Java libraries, use `jnigen`.__

## SDK Note
Dart standalone is supported, but due to some current limitations of the `pubspec` format, `dart` command must be from Flutter SDK and not dart SDK. See dart-lang/pub#3563.

## Version note
This library is at an early stage of development and we do not provide backwards compatibility of the API at this point.

## Documentation
The test/ directory contains files with comments explaining the basics of this module, and the example/ directory contains a flutter example which also touches some Android-specifics.

Using this library assumes some familiarity with JNI - it's threading model and object references, among other things.

## jnigen

This library is a part of `jnigen` - a 2022 GSoC project.

The broader aim of jnigen is making Java APIs accessible from dart in an idiomatic way.
