pkgs/native_assets_builder/doc/protocol/v1.md, before:

Build Hook Specification
========================

Version 1: As of 2024-01-24 implemented behind `--enable-experiment=native-assets`

### Concepts

#### Asset
A reference to a file that is identified by an `assetId`. There may be multiple files with the
same `assetId` with different characteristics such as `target` or `link_mode`.

Note that in v1 there are _only_ native code assets, no data assets.
Native code assets are dynamic libraries.
Native data assets will be blobs of data accessible as a byte list in Dart.

#### AssetId
An asset must have an `assetId`. Dart code that uses an asset, references the
asset using the `assetId`.

A package MUST prefix all assetIds it defines with: `package:<package>/`, this
ensures assets don't conflict between packages.

Conventionally, an asset referenced from `lib/src/foo.dart` in `package:foo`
has `assetId = 'package:foo/src/foo.dart'`.

#### Target

A target specifies the operating system and architecture of the targeted platform.

List of `platform` and `architecture` tuples supported by the
Dart and Flutter SDKs to be specified below:
 * `linux_x64`
 * TODO: enumerate full list of supported platform/architecture tuples.



### `build.dart`
To bundle native assets with a package, that package must define a `build.dart`
script which accepts a `--config` option as follows:

```console
$ dart build.dart --config <build_config.yaml>
```

The `--config` option specifies location of the `build_config.yaml` file.

The `build.dart` file MUST:
 * Read the `build_config.yaml` file,
 * Build assets using configuration from `build_config.yaml`.
   * If `dry_run: true` in `build_config.yaml`, then this may be skipped.
 * Write assets into `out_dir` from `build_config.yaml`.
   * If `dry_run: true` in `build_config.yaml`, then this may be skipped.
   * Filename are unrelated to `assetId`.
   * Arbitrary file names are fine, `build_output.yaml` will map `assetId` to files. 
   * MUST avoid file name `build_output.yaml`.
 * Write `build_output.yaml` into `out_dir` (from `build_config.yaml`).
   * This maps `assetId` to assets previous written in `out_dir`.
   * There may be multiple assets for a given `assetId` depending on
     characteristics like `target`, `link_mode`, etc.
   * If `dry_run: true` in `build_config.yaml`, the list of assets that would be
     generated must this be enumerated. Mapping `assetId`s to non-existing files
     is expected.


### `build_config.yaml`
The Dart and Flutter SDK invoke `build.dart` of all packages in the transitive
dependencies and pass a `build_config.yaml` as the `--config` option.

```yaml
# Build in dry-run mode.
#
# Running in dry-run mode `<out_dir>/build_output.yaml` must be written, but
# the files it references need not exist.
dry_run: true | false

# Build Mode.
#
# A hint `build.dart` can use to determined which optimizations to enable and
# whether or not to include debug symbols in the format relevant for the asset.
#
# Not provided on dry runs.
build_mode: release | debug

# Metadata as output from build.dart from direct dependencies.
#
# Not provided on dry runs.
dependency_metadata:
  # package name of direct dependency.
  some_package_name:
    # key value pairs.
    some_key: some_value

# Preferred link mode
link_mode_preference: dynamic | static | prefer-dynamic | prefer-static

# Path to output directory where assets should be placed.
#
# This is also where `build_output.yaml` should be written.
#
# Remark: Avoid using the name "build_output.yaml" for an asset file, this is
#         forbidden.
out_dir: /absolute/path/to/out_dir/

# Name of the package that contains the `build.dart`
#
# Remark: This is entirely redundant since this is a config file specified to
# `build.dart`, and the author of `build.dart` probably knows the name of the
# package they are writing.
package_name: my_package_with_native_assets

# Path to root folder for the package that contains `build.dart`.
#
# This is useful if `build.dart` wishes to find source code files embedded in
# its own package and compile them to an asset.
#
# Note that this will be most likely a path in the pub cache when the package
# with a `build.dart` is a dependency of another package.
package_root: /absolute/path/to/my_package_with_native_assets

# Target architecture
#
# Combined with `target_os` this specifies the "target" for which assets
# should be built.
#
# Not provided on dry runs.
target_architecture: x64 | ia32 | arm | arm64 | riscv32 | riscv64

# Target operating system
#
# Combined with `target_architecture` this specifies the "target" for which
# assets should be built.
target_os: android | ios | linux | macos | windows

# Schema version of this file.
version: 1.0.0
```

### `build_output.yaml`
Mapping from `assetId`s to files created by `build.dart`.

```yaml
# The list of assets.
#
# In dry runs, must contain assets for each architecture for the requested os.
assets:
  - id: 'package:my_package_with_native_assets/src/foo.dart'
    link_mode: dynamic | static | prefer-dynamic | prefer-static
    path:
      path_type: absolute | system | process | executable
      # Only provided for path_type absolute and system.
      #
      # If path_type absolute: The absolute path to the file name.
      #
      # If path_type system: The path of the dynamic library as available on 
      # the target machine's PATH.
      uri: /absolute/path/to/outdir/arbitrary_filename.whatever
    target: linux_x64
  ...

# The files used by this build.
#
# If any of the files in [dependencies] are modified after [timestamp], the
# build will be re-run.
#
# Not output on dry runs.
dependencies:
  - /absolute/path/to/my_package_with_native_assets/build.dart
  ...

# The time the build this output is for started.
#
# Must be before any of the files in dependencies are read.
timestamp: 2024-01-02 17:05:35.000

# Metadata usable for build.dart of packages directly depending on this package.
#
# Not output in dry runs.
metadata:
  # Key value pairs.
  some_key: some_value

# Schema version of this file.
version: 1.0.0
```


### `.dart_tool/native_assets.yaml`

This file is internal to the Dart SDK and Flutter SDK.
It produced by `native_asset_builder` (as embedded in the SDKs).
For each `target` it maps from `assetId` to `url`
(with `urlKind` indicating if it's a relative or absolute path).

```yaml
# Schema version of this file.
format-version: [1, 0, 0]

# A mapping from target and assetId to an asset.
native-assets:
  # A <target>.
  linux_x64:
    # An <assetId>.
    : 'package:my_package_with_native_assets/src/foo.dart'
      # A list of path_type and optionally a path.
      - absolute | relative | system | process | executable
      - <url> # Only provided for absolute, relative, and system path types.
  ...
```

This file is used by the embedded SDK to resolve `assetId`s when running in
development mode or build a deployable application (or standalone executable).

## Wishes to improve for v2

* Multiple asset types. Rename `Asset` to `NativeCodeAsset` and introduce `DataAsset`s.
* The path_types really only make sense for `link_mode: dynamic`.
* Fix the mismatch between `target` for output but `os` and `architecture` for config.
  * Should the architecture field of native code assets be optional and be ommitted in dry runs?
* Introduce a `link.dart` protocol with a link input and link output.

Commit message:

Add path_type concepts for native_assets.yaml

pkgs/native_assets_builder/doc/protocol/v1.md, after:

Build Hook Specification
========================

Version 1: As of 2024-01-24 implemented behind `--enable-experiment=native-assets`

### Concepts

#### Asset
A reference to a file that is identified by an `assetId`. There may be multiple files with the
same `assetId` with different characteristics such as `target` or `link_mode`.

Note that in v1 there are _only_ native code assets, no data assets.
Native code assets are dynamic libraries.
Native data assets will be blobs of data accessible as a byte list in Dart.

#### AssetId
An asset must have an `assetId`. Dart code that uses an asset, references the
asset using the `assetId`.

A package MUST prefix all assetIds it defines with: `package:<package>/`, this
ensures assets don't conflict between packages.

Conventionally, an asset referenced from `lib/src/foo.dart` in `package:foo`
has `assetId = 'package:foo/src/foo.dart'`.

#### Target

A target specifies the operating system and architecture of the targeted platform.

List of `platform` and `architecture` tuples supported by the
Dart and Flutter SDKs to be specified below:
 * `linux_x64`
 * TODO: enumerate full list of supported platform/architecture tuples.



### `build.dart`
To bundle native assets with a package, that package must define a `build.dart`
script which accepts a `--config` option as follows:

```console
$ dart build.dart --config <build_config.yaml>
```

The `--config` option specifies location of the `build_config.yaml` file.

The `build.dart` file MUST:
 * Read the `build_config.yaml` file,
 * Build assets using configuration from `build_config.yaml`.
   * If `dry_run: true` in `build_config.yaml`, then this may be skipped.
 * Write assets into `out_dir` from `build_config.yaml`.
   * If `dry_run: true` in `build_config.yaml`, then this may be skipped.
   * Filename are unrelated to `assetId`.
   * Arbitrary file names are fine, `build_output.yaml` will map `assetId` to files. 
   * MUST avoid file name `build_output.yaml`.
 * Write `build_output.yaml` into `out_dir` (from `build_config.yaml`).
   * This maps `assetId` to assets previous written in `out_dir`.
   * There may be multiple assets for a given `assetId` depending on
     characteristics like `target`, `link_mode`, etc.
   * If `dry_run: true` in `build_config.yaml`, the list of assets that would be
     generated must this be enumerated. Mapping `assetId`s to non-existing files
     is expected.


### `build_config.yaml`
The Dart and Flutter SDK invoke `build.dart` of all packages in the transitive
dependencies and pass a `build_config.yaml` as the `--config` option.

```yaml
# Build in dry-run mode.
#
# Running in dry-run mode `<out_dir>/build_output.yaml` must be written, but
# the files it references need not exist.
dry_run: true | false

# Build Mode.
#
# A hint `build.dart` can use to determined which optimizations to enable and
# whether or not to include debug symbols in the format relevant for the asset.
#
# Not provided on dry runs.
build_mode: release | debug

# Metadata as output from build.dart from direct dependencies.
#
# Not provided on dry runs.
dependency_metadata:
  # package name of direct dependency.
  some_package_name:
    # key value pairs.
    some_key: some_value

# Preferred link mode
link_mode_preference: dynamic | static | prefer-dynamic | prefer-static

# Path to output directory where assets should be placed.
#
# This is also where `build_output.yaml` should be written.
#
# Remark: Avoid using the name "build_output.yaml" for an asset file, this is
#         forbidden.
out_dir: /absolute/path/to/out_dir/

# Name of the package that contains the `build.dart`
#
# Remark: This is entirely redundant since this is a config file specified to
# `build.dart`, and the author of `build.dart` probably knows the name of the
# package they are writing.
package_name: my_package_with_native_assets

# Path to root folder for the package that contains `build.dart`.
#
# This is useful if `build.dart` wishes to find source code files embedded in
# its own package and compile them to an asset.
#
# Note that this will be most likely a path in the pub cache when the package
# with a `build.dart` is a dependency of another package.
package_root: /absolute/path/to/my_package_with_native_assets

# Target architecture
#
# Combined with `target_os` this specifies the "target" for which assets
# should be built.
#
# Not provided on dry runs.
target_architecture: x64 | ia32 | arm | arm64 | riscv32 | riscv64

# Target operating system
#
# Combined with `target_architecture` this specifies the "target" for which
# assets should be built.
target_os: android | ios | linux | macos | windows

# Schema version of this file.
version: 1.0.0
```

### `build_output.yaml`
Mapping from `assetId`s to files created by `build.dart`.

```yaml
# The list of assets.
#
# In dry runs, must contain assets for each architecture for the requested os.
assets:
  - id: 'package:my_package_with_native_assets/src/foo.dart'
    link_mode: dynamic | static | prefer-dynamic | prefer-static
    path:
      path_type: absolute | system | process | executable
      # Only provided for path_type absolute and system.
      #
      # If path_type absolute: The absolute path to the file name.
      #
      # If path_type system: The path of the dynamic library as available on 
      # the target machine's PATH.
      uri: /absolute/path/to/outdir/arbitrary_filename.whatever
    target: linux_x64
  ...

# The files used by this build.
#
# If any of the files in [dependencies] are modified after [timestamp], the
# build will be re-run.
#
# Not output on dry runs.
dependencies:
  - /absolute/path/to/my_package_with_native_assets/build.dart
  ...

# The time the build this output is for started.
#
# Must be before any of the files in dependencies are read.
timestamp: 2024-01-02 17:05:35.000

# Metadata usable for build.dart of packages directly depending on this package.
#
# Not output in dry runs.
metadata:
  # Key value pairs.
  some_key: some_value

# Schema version of this file.
version: 1.0.0
```


### `.dart_tool/native_assets.yaml`

(This is not part of the build.dart protocol.)

This file is internal to the Dart SDK and Flutter SDK.
It produced by `native_asset_builder` (as embedded in the SDKs).
For each `target` it maps from `assetId` to a path type with an optional path.

These paths are used to resolve `@Native() external` functions in Dart code.

The path types in this file are as follows:

* `absolute` paths are absolute paths on the system where the Dart executable is running. This path type is used when running in JIT mode on a developers' host machine, or in an Android app where the root path is the Android bundle.
* `relative` paths are relative to the kernel or aot snapshot. This path type is used for shipping native assets in a directory together with a kernelsnapshot, aotsnapshot, or standalone executable (dartaotruntime+aotsnapshot).
* `system` paths are expected to resolve on the target machine PATH.
* `process` "paths" have no path, symbols are resolved in the current process.
* `executable` "paths" have no path, symbols are resolved in the current executable.

```yaml
# Schema version of this file.
format-version: [1, 0, 0]

# A mapping from target and assetId to an asset.
native-assets:
  # A <target>.
  linux_x64:
    # An <assetId>.
    'package:my_package_with_native_assets/src/foo.dart':
      # A list of path_type and optionally a path.
      - absolute | relative | system | process | executable
      - <url> # Only provided for absolute, relative, and system path types.
  ...
```

This file is used by the embedded SDK to resolve `assetId`s when running in
development mode or build a deployable application (or standalone executable).

## Wishes to improve for v2

* Multiple asset types. Rename `Asset` to `NativeCodeAsset` and introduce `DataAsset`s.
* The path_types really only make sense for `link_mode: dynamic`.
* Fix the mismatch between `target` for output but `os` and `architecture` for config.
  * Should the architecture field of native code assets be optional and be ommitted in dry runs?
* Introduce a `link.dart` protocol with a link input and link output.
